the Israeli Army says its goal is the
destruction of Hamas but more
specifically it's hunting the leaders of
the militant organization Khan yunes is
the home of hamas's Gaza Chief Yaya
Sinar and although he has not been seen
publicly since the beginning of the war
Israel believes he is hiding somewhere
in the
city the house of sin is in the area of
hunis you have terror infrastructure and
command centers there sinir is not above
ground he's underground I don't want to
elaborate where and how and what we know
in terms of intelligence this is not the
place to talk about such things in the
media our job is to find Sina and kill
him all right let's get more on this I'm
joined by Hans yakob Shindler senior
director of the counter extremism
project Mr Shindler Israel wants to find
and kill Yaya Sinar can
it of course uh this is
extraordinary difficult uh Endeavor uh
because there is this still functioning
underground system in particularly in
the southern half of Gaza but Sinar
really is the key leader to get here he
was from the very beginning part of
setting up the terrorist structure of
Hamas from 19988 1988 onwards he was
also the founder of the Gaza Hamas
intelligence organization that hunts
what they call collaborators those who
um cooperate with Israel and executes
them so it's really an important Target
to take
out Yaya Sinar is also said to have
masterminded the October 7 terror attack
in Israel can you tell us a bit more
about what we do know about
him well he was born in kanun in 1962 um
he joined Hamas from the very beginning
as I said he was the one who set up the
terrorist infrastructure he's a
hardliner if you can say that within a
terrorist organization um who always um
argued for taking hostages to exchange
for Palestinian prisoners he's the one
who really strongly argued when he came
up to the leadership in
2017 uh for a stronger relationship with
Iran and to really build hamas's ability
not only to conduct smaller scale Terror
attacks in Israel but what we have seen
in October 7 so he really is the brains
behind of all of this and in his 20 two
years that he spent in Israeli prisons
before he was exchanged in 2011 as part
of the gilad Shalit deal he also seem to
have learned Hebrew and he um according
to many of the hostages that actually
talked to him in their cap captivity as
speaks fluent Hebrew and Israel wants to
find and kill this man you called it an
extraordinarily difficult uh uh
operation we're talking about aan Unice
which is a stronghold of Hamas surely
Hamas m is ready and waiting uh for
Israeli troops and Israeli operations
How likely is it I ask you again that
Israel will even be able to catch
him well it's not 100% guarantee because
there's of course also tunnels that
stretch into the Sinai which means there
is a possibility for individuals to
leave clandestinely Gaza however if uh
Israel is going to do in the South what
they've done in the north I.E create a
cordon of milit control around the
borders of Gaza um then escaping through
those tunnels is going to be uh very
difficult for Mr sinir he will
definitely try his uh survival is key
for Hamas so they will do whatever they
can to prevent the Israelis from killing
or capturing him so if his survival is
key for Hamas if Israel were to find and
kill sinir would that spell the end of
Hamas in
Gaza it wouldn't spend the end of end of
Hamas but to replace a leader that has
been you know key to the terrorist
operations from the onset of the
establishment of the group is going to
be very difficult and it is going to
take a long time to get someone again
with this kind of experience on how to
do terrorism back not only in the
organization but also back into Gaza so
taking him out is really a valuable
Target here you know but uh this uh this
argument about replacing an experienced
leader this has been made in the past
decades ever since the late is when
Hamas was set up yet Hamas continues and
now it is de facto in government in the
Gaza Strip surely Hamas has other
leaders that are
waiting absolutely so here is the the
key difference so Hamas has an ongoing
concern and Hamas as a major threat to
Israel so what the military operations
can definitely achieve is to set back
hamas's ability from the Gaza Strip to
threaten Israel in any way shape or form
on the size that it did in October 7th
however eradicating Hamas as an ongoing
terrorist group and concern will take a
much longer task of course as Al-Qaeda
as the Islamic State have done once they
were military defeated in Afghanistan
and Iraq and Syria is they simply
devolved into a networked organization
with smaller scale Terror attacks um
this is all of course then a very
long-term Endeavor and will require more
than just military operations AAL
coroporation but also social economic
development in the Palestinian
territories do you want to Hazard a
guess as to how long it will take and
the reason I asked this is because the
head of Israel's domestic intelligence
agency wants to eliminate Hamas entirely
including in the region what is the time
frame we are looking at and is that even
possible well I mean there's a military
timeline and then there's a political
timeline for Israel right now and it
seems very clear that um Israel has a
couple of weeks maybe a month or two
left uh for its military operations in
Gaza before International pressure comes
becomes too heavy for it to continue any
major military operations that doesn't
mean that everything is going to stop
but not on the scale that we see in
right now so this is the timeline that
Israel has to destroy as much as
possible the tunnel system find weapon
stumps destroy the rocket launching
facilities and then starts the really
long-term work on eradicating hamas's
ideology and for that Israel cannot do
this alone it needs International
cooperation we'll leave it there for the
time being thanks so much for joining us
today Hans yob Shindler senior director
of the counter extremism project thank
you
sir thank you
m and here's a quick look now at some
other stories from around the world
reuter's investigation into the death of
one of its journalists in Lebanon on the
13th of October has concluded that he
was killed by an Israeli tank shell six
other the reporters were wounded in the
incident a kilometer from the Israeli
border Reuters assessed multiple video
sources and other evidence from the
scene